This is a flight control example:

FIRST AUTHOR: Irfan Hamid
MODIFIED BY : Gilles Lasnier (AADLv2 version)

Description: To illustrate the use of event and event data ports, we
will study the example of a simplistic flight computer. We will assume
that our platform has three different sensors; an angle-of-attack
sensor that periodically sends data in integers for the current AoA, a
climb-rate sensor that also periodically sends integer data and a
sensor that raises an event in case of engine failure. In our example
we will simulate the three sensors with a periodic thread that will
update values of the AoA and climb-rate sensors at every dispatch, and
will sometimes send the engine failure event.

We have a thread called Stall_Monitor that is a periodic thread which
will monitor the condition of the AoA and climb-rate sensors and raise
a stall warning if certain conditions are met. The thread Operator
simulates the pilot. It is a periodic thread that sends a command at
every dispatch to raise or lower the landing gear of the aircraft. The
thread Landing_Gear simulates the landing gear subsystem. It receives
a command to start a landing gear operation, it takes 3 seconds to
raise/lower and lock the landing gear and then sends an
acknowledgement. It is a sporadic thread with a minimum inter-arrival
time of 3 seconds. The thread HCI is a human computer interface. It
will receive a stall warning as an event data of type Integer, engine
failure as an event, a landing gear command from the pilot and may
send a landing gear operation request to the landing gear subsystem,
and receives a landing gear operation acknowledgement from the landing
gear subsystem. It is a sporadic thread with a minimum inter-arrival
time of 10ms.

For more details: http://aadl.enst.fr/arc/doc/
